[Solver team] Add new solver api info (#324)
cowprotocol/docs: docs/cow-protocol/reference/core/auctions/schema.md

---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Schemas

All the instances and solutions of the batch auction problem are formatted in [JSON](https://www.json.org/json-en.html). In this section, we describe these schemas.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
```
this prints strangely atm. did you want this to be a note?

### `liquidity`

This key is a list of all the publicly available AMMs/limit orders that are made available for use by the default implementation of the Driver, available to the solver engines that request such liquidity. Internally, this is also known as _baseline_ liquidity. Each entry describes the current state of an AMM or an existing public limit order. Currently, there are 5 different types of liquidity provided by the Driver:

- constant product pools, i.e., Uniswap v2 type pools on 2 tokens.
- weighted Product pools, i.e., Balancer type weighted product pools on N tokens.
- stable pools, i.e., Curve type stable pools on N tokens.
- concentrated liquidity pools, i.e., Uniswap v3 type concentrated liquidity pools on 2 tokens.
- foreign limit orders, i.e., external 0x type limit orders on 2 tokens.

More information about the exact descriptions of these pools can be found [here](https://docs.cow.fi/cow-protocol/reference/apis/solver).

### `effectiveGasPrice`

> This key is a single entry that is a stringified integer describing the current gas price in wei.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This key is a single entry that is a stringified integer describing the current gas price in wei.

:::note
The actual effective gas price when settling a solution might be different due to fluctuations of gas prices and due to the choice of submission strategy.
:::
```
we could add a comment here to emphazise that the gas price for submission of the settlement might be different even withoug changes of the gas price.

Author: I actually changed the phrasing a bit. Let me know if you agree with the new version

    "0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2": "1000000000000000000"
}
```

The above entries should be interpreted as follows:

- 1 wei (3rd entry) has a price of 1000000000000000000 = 10<sup>18</sup>.
- The lowest denomination of `USDC` (1st entry), i.e., 1 / 10<sup>6</sup> of `USDC`, has a price of 389193245742363509576247472 relative to the price of 10<sup>18</sup> that wei has. This translates, for example, to 1 `WETH` having a price of $$\frac{1000000000000000000 \cdot 10^{18}}{389193245742363509576247472 \cdot 10^{6}} \approx 2569.417$$ `USDC`.
- The lowest denomination of `COW` (2nd entry) is 1 / 10<sup>18</sup> , and it has a price of 137298311435590. This translates, for example, to 1 `COW` having a price of $$\frac{137298311435590 \cdot 10^{18}}{389193245742363509576247472 \cdot 10^{6}} \approx 0.35277$$ USDC.

### `trades`

This key maps to a list of all orders that were selected for execution. Each trade is a dictionary that contains the following entries:

- `kind`: this is string of the set {"fulfillment", "jit"}, which corresponds to an order existing in the orderbook, or a just-in-time liquidity order placed by the solver, respectively.

> - `order`: in case of a "fulillment" trade, the `uid` of the order is provided here as a string. In case it is a just-in-time liquidity order, the specifications of the order are explicitly given as a dictionary; more details can be found [here](https://docs.cow.fi/cow-protocol/reference/apis/solver).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `order`: in case of a "fulfillment" trade, the `uid` of the order is provided here as a string. In case it is a just-in-time liquidity order, the specifications of the order are explicitly given as a dictionary; more details can be found [here](https://docs.cow.fi/cow-protocol/reference/apis/solver).
```

- `fee`: this entry exists only for "fullilment" trades, and maps to a stringified integer describing the fee of the order (either pre-signed or solver computed), denominated in the sell token.

> - `executedAmount`: this is a stringified integer corresponding to the sell amount (for sell orders) or the buy amount (for buy orders) that would get executed. Note that this is amount is "separate" from the "fee" amount that was described above; this, for example, means that for a sell "fulfillment" order, the trader will send a total of `fee + executedAmount` sell tokens to the contract. We also stress that ii is the executedAmount where uniform clearing prices are being applied to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `executedAmount`: this is a stringified integer corresponding to the sell amount (for sell orders) or the buy amount (for buy orders) that would get executed. Note that this is amount is "separate" from the "fee" amount that was described above; this, for example, means that for a sell "fulfillment" order, the trader will send a total of `fee + executedAmount` sell tokens to the contract. We also stress that it is the `executedAmount` where uniform clearing prices are being applied to.
```

2. There is enough balance of sell token B, i.e., at least as much amount as the sell amount of the AMM interaction. This is revealed by the `availableBalance` entry in the token description.

If both conditions are satisfied, a solver can set the `internalize` flag to `true` in order to internalize the interaction:

```json
"internalize": true
```

In such a case, the default driver will remove the interaction, and so the solution will end up using less gas, get better ranking, and also be risk-free (at least the part involving the internalized AMM interaction).

### `score`

The score is a key that describes the "bid" a solver makes for the batch in the [solver auction](rewards), as it will get ranked according to it. The protocol picks the solution with the highest score, given that it is strictly positive. The score maps to a dictionary with two entries. The first entry is the following:

- `kind`: this is a string of the set {"solver", "riskAdjusted"}, that determines whether a solver will explicitly provide a score or will delegate the score computation to the default driver by only specifying a probability of success for the proposed solution.

> If we have `"kind": "solver"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `score`, that corresponds to a stringified float that specifies the score attached to the solution. On the other hand, if we have `"kind": "riskAdjusted"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `successProbability`, that is a a stringified float that specifies the success probability of the proposed solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we have `"kind": "riskAdjusted"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `successProbability`, that is a a stringified float that specifies the success probability of the proposed solution. On the other hand, if we have `"kind": "solver"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `score`, that corresponds to a stringified float that specifies the score attached to the solution.

:::note
All solvers are encouraged to submit a score via `"kind": "riskAdjusted"` and `successProbability`. Submitting scores directly via `"kind": "solver"` is discouraged and this option might get deprecated.
:::
```
Not sure how to formulate this. I think we should explicitly discourage the submission of scores.

Author: Added some clarifications. Let me know if you think it's fine now.

### `liquidity`

This key is a list of all the publicly available AMMs/limit orders that are made available for use by the default implementation of the Driver, available to the solver engines that request such liquidity. Internally, this is also known as _baseline_ liquidity. Each entry describes the current state of an AMM or an existing public limit order. Currently, there are 5 different types of liquidity provided by the Driver:

- constant product pools, i.e., Uniswap v2 type pools on 2 tokens.
- weighted Product pools, i.e., Balancer type weighted product pools on N tokens.
- stable pools, i.e., Curve type stable pools on N tokens.
- concentrated liquidity pools, i.e., Uniswap v3 type concentrated liquidity pools on 2 tokens.
- foreign limit orders, i.e., external 0x type limit orders on 2 tokens.

More information about the exact descriptions of these pools can be found [here](https://docs.cow.fi/cow-protocol/reference/apis/solver).

### `effectiveGasPrice`

> This key is a single entry that is a stringified integer describing an estimate of the effective gas price for the winning solution, denominated in wei.

Reviewer: Maybe it was better before. As in
```suggestion
This key is a single entry that is a stringified integer describing the current gas price in wei.
```

What I wanted to get at was that solvers interpreted the number as an estimate of the gas_price and that only general variations in gas price would lead to a different value for the settlement. But this is wrong, if I understand correctly. We do in some cases add 10% or something like that. This additional tip seems to be the main source of deviation and tripped up solvers in the past.

Author: But i believe this is not just the base fee but it tries to approximate the effective gas price including the fee. Maybe I am wrong here. Let me try to check the code and get back to you.

Author: https://github.com/cowprotocol/services/blob/06e9c4ed58da488973299c14164c452c59505d72/crates/driver/src/domain/eth/gas.rs#L66

This seems to suggest tip is already added here.

Reviewer: At some point is was base fee + "small tip", where the small tip was for inclusion of fully internalized transactions. This is then a good estimate for the case where there are no interactions, just transfers to users.
When there are interactions, we added an additional tip, so that block builders include our transaction faster or, rather, we pay them to not extract MEV. Not sure if that changed at some point. @sunce86 

Also not super important. I just remembered that solvers did have problems understanding the meaning which lead to "unintentional" overbidding.

2. There is enough balance of sell token B, i.e., at least as much amount as the sell amount of the AMM interaction. This is revealed by the `availableBalance` entry in the token description.

If both conditions are satisfied, a solver can set the `internalize` flag to `true` in order to internalize the interaction:

```json
"internalize": true
```

In such a case, the default driver will remove the interaction, and so the solution will end up using less gas, get better ranking, and also be risk-free (at least the part involving the internalized AMM interaction).

### `score`

The score is a key that describes the "bid" a solver makes for the batch in the [solver auction](rewards), as it will get ranked according to it. The protocol picks the solution with the highest score, given that it is strictly positive. The score maps to a dictionary with two entries. The first entry is the following:

- `kind`: this is a string of the set {"solver", "riskAdjusted"}, that determines whether a solver will explicitly provide a score or will delegate the score computation to the default driver by only specifying a probability of success for the proposed solution.

> If we have `"kind": "solver"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `score`, that corresponds to a stringified float that specifies the score attached to the solution. On the other hand, if we have `"kind": "riskAdjusted"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `successProbability`, that is a a stringified float that specifies the success probability of the proposed solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we have `"kind": "solver"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `score`, that corresponds to a stringified float that specifies the score attached to the solution. On the other hand, if we have `"kind": "riskAdjusted"`, then there is a second entry, labeled `successProbability`, that is a stringified float that specifies the success probability of the proposed solution.
```
